Words,Translations
a|ab,from
aberat,was out|was absent
abest,is out|is absent
abit,goes away
accipit,accepts
ad,to
adest,is here
adsunt,are here
advenio|advenire|adveni,arrive
aedificium,building
aedifico,build
aeger,sick
agit,does
agitat,chases|hunts
agmen,column of men|army
agnoscit,recognises
agricola,farmer
aliquid,something
alius,other|another
alter,the other|the second
ambulat,walks
amicus,friend
amittit,lose
ancilla,slave-girl|maid
animus|anime,spirit|soul|mind
anulus,ring
appropinquo,approach
apud,among|at the house of
aqua,water
are|arae,alter
attonitus,astonished
audit,hears
aula,palace
auxilium,help
bene,well
benignus,kind
bibit,drinks
bonus,good
callidus,clever|cunning
canis,dog
canto|cantare|cantavi,sing
capit,takes
celeriter,quickly
cena,dinner
cenat,dines
ceteri,the rest|the other
cibus,food
circumspectat,looks around
civis,citizen
clamat,shouts
clamor,shout|uproar
claudo|claudere|clausi,shut|block
commodus,convenient
complet,fills
consentio,agree
consilium,plan|idea
conspicit,catches sight of
consumit,eats
contendit,hurries
contentus,satisfied
convenit,gathers|meets
conquit,cooks
coquus,cook
cotidie,everyday
credit,trusts|believes
cubiculum,bedroom
cum,with
cupit,wants
cur,why
currit,runs
custodit,guards
custos,guard
dat,gives
de,about
debeo,owe|ought
decorus,right|proper
deinde,then
delecto,delight
deleo|delere|delevi,destroy
deus,god
dico|decere|dixi,say
dies,day
difficilis,difficult
diligenter,carefully
diu,for a long time
domina,mistress
dominus,master
donum,gift|present
dormit,sleeps
ducit,leads|takes
duo,two
e,from|out of
ecce,look
effugio,escape
ego,I
eheu,oh dear!|oh no!
emit,buys
emittit,throws|sends out
epistula,letter
equus,horse
est,is
et,and
etiam,even
eum,him
excito|excitara|excitavi,arouse
exclamat,exclaims
exit,goes out
exspectat,waits for
faber|fabri,craftsman
fabula,play|story
facile,easily
facilis,easy
facit,makes|does
favet,supports
femina|mulier,woman
ferociter,fiercely
ferox,fierce
fert,brings|carries
fessus,tired
festinat,hurries
fidelis,faithful|loyal
filius,son
flamma,flame
flos,flower
fortis,brave
fortiter,bravely
frater,brother
frustra,in vain
fugit,runs
fundus,farm
fur,theif
gladius,sword
graviter,seriously
habet,has
habitat,lives
heri,yesterday
hic,this
hodie,today
homo,human being|man
hortus,garden
huc,here|to this place
iacet,lies
iam,now
ianua,door
igitur,therefore
ignavus,cowardly
ille,that
impedio,delay|hinder
imperator,emperor
imperium,empire
in,in
ingens,huge
inquit,says
inspicit,looks at|examines
insula,island
intellegit,understands
intente,intently|carefully
inter,amoung
interficio,kill
intrat,enters
invenit,finds
ipse|ipsa,himself|herself
iratus,angry
iste,that
it,goes
ita,in this way
ita vero,yes
itaque,and so
interum,again
iudex,judge
iuvenis,young man
laborat,works|is working
lacrimat|flens,weeps|cries
laetus,happy
laudat,praises
lectus,couch
legit,reads
lente,slowly
leo,lion
liber,book
liberalis,freedman|ex-slave
libertus,generous
litus,sea-shore
magnus,big
mane,morning
manet,remains|stays
mare,sea
maritus,husband
mater,mother
maximus,very big
medius,middle
melior,better
mendax,liar
mercator,merchant
meus,my|mine
minime,no
mirabilis,strange|extra-ordinary
miser,miserable|wretched
mittit,sends
mons,mountain
mortuus,dead
mox,soon
multi,many
multus,much
narrat,tells|relates
nauta,sailor
navigo,sail
navis,ship
necat,kills
necesse,necessary
negotium,business
nihil,nothing
nolo,don't want
non,not
nonne,surely
nos,we
noster,our
novus,new|fresh|recent
nullus,no|none|not any
num,surely not
numquam,never
nunc,now
nuntiat,announces
nuntius,messenger
offert,offers
olim,once|sometime ago
omnis|universos,all
optime,very well
optimus,very good|excellent
ostendit,shows
paene,almost|nearly
parat,prepares
parvus,small
pater,father
pauci,few|a few
pax,peace
pecunia,money
per,through
pereo|perire|peri,die|perish
perterritus,terrified
pervenio,reach|arrive at
pes,foot
petit,makes for,attacks
placet,it pleases
plaudit,applauds
poeta,poet
pono|ponere|posui,place|put
porta,gate
portat,carries
portus,harbour
possum,can|be able
post,after the
postquam,after
postridie,on the next day
postulat,demands
primus,first
princeps,emperor|cheif
procedit,proceeds|advances
promittit,promises
prope,near
puella,girl
puer,boy
pugna,fight
pugnat,fights
pulcher,beautiful
pulsat,hits|thumps
punio|punire|punivi,punish
quaerit,looks for|searches for
quam,than|how
quamquam,although
que,and
qui,who
quis,who
quod|quia,because
quondam,one day|once
recipio,recover|take back
reddit,gives back
redeo,return|go back|come back
res,thing
resisto,resist
respondet,replies
revenit,come back|returns
rex,king
ridet,laughs|smiles
rogat,asks
ruo|ruere|rui,rush
sacerdos,priest
saepe,often
salutat,greets
salve,hello
sanguis,blood
satis,enough
scribit,writes
se,himself
sed,but
sedet,sits|is sitting
senator,senator
senex,old man
sentit,feels
servat,saves|looks after
servus,slave
signum,sign|seal
silva,wood
simulac|simulatque,as soon as
sollicitus,worried|anxious
solus,alone
spectaculum,show|watches
spectat,looks at|watches
stat,stands
statim,at once
stultus,stupid
subito,suddenly
summus,highest|greatest|top
superat,overcomes|overpowers
surgit,gets up|stands up
suus,his|her|their
taberna,shop|inn
tacet,is silent|is quiet
tacite,quietly
tamen|autem,however
tandem,at last
templum,temple
teneo,hold
terra,ground|land|earth
terret,frightens
timet,is afraid|fears
tollo|tollere|sustuli,raise|lift up
totus,whole
tradit,hand over
traho|trahere|traxi,drag
tres,three
tu,you(singular)
tum,then
turba,crowd
tuus,your|yours
ubi,where|when
unda,wave
unus,one
urbs,city
uxor,wife
valde,very much
vale,goodbye
vehementar,violently
vendit,sells
venit,comes
verberat,strikes|beats
verto|vertere|verti,turn
via,steet
videt,sees
vinco,win
vinum,wine
vir,man
vita,life
vituperat,blames|curses
vocat,calls
volo,I want
vos,you (plural)
vulnero|vulnerare|vulneravi,wound
oculus,eye
panem,bread
custodi,keep
soror,sister
manibus,hand
mandatum,command
veritas,truth
sanctus,holy
aeternum,eternal
bellum,war
noctis,night
amare,love
lux,light
filia,daughter
oriens|aurora,dawn
annos,year
aurum,gold
mensis,month
mortem,dead
flumen,river
gens,tribe|nation
vulvam|utero,matrix|womb
oravit|orabat,prayed
novacula,razor
caput,head
magister,teacher
gratia,grace
immulatio,offering
farina,flour
cornu,horn
arcum,bow
ferveret,boiling
fuscinula|furca,fork